In this lesson, we will work on the same forward slash users API endpoint, but this time will be sending
a HTTP get request and if you follow rest API design guidelines, then HTTP get request that is sent
to four slash users.
API endpoint should return back a list of users.
And usually this request is protected by protected.
I mean that to communicate with this API endpoint, our request will need to include a valid authorization
access token.
And if we do not provide valid access token, then in response we will get back as HTTP status code
403 which stands for Forbidden.
So our new test method will need to make sure that the protected API endpoint does indeed return for
three status code.
If we do not include a valid access token and HTTP status code four three means that server understands
the request but it refuses to authorize it.
In the following lessons, we will learn how to acquire a valid access token, but at this moment,
since we do not have it, I think it's a good moment to write a test method that validates if our API
endpoint does indeed require access token.
All right, so let's scroll down and start with a new test method.
As a display name.
I will come up with something like http kid two for users requires readability.
Something like this.
I'm going to test and get users API point.
So my test method name will start with test get users and then when missing JWT token then returns a
HTTP status code for a three.
Something like this and I will split my method into arrange, act and assert.
In the range section.
I will prepare a shipping request and I will start with HTTP headers.
At this moment, I will set maybe a one header which is going to be accept and I could use setter or
I can use a set method and then include header name like this accept and then spell the content type.
I want to include application forward slash JSON and I will put this should be headers into a entity
object.
Okay.
So the constructor of gdb entity accepts request body and headers.
But because I'm going to send the http get request, the body of request will be empty.
So when I create a be entity, I can either provide null as a body or do not include it at all.
Okay.
So now that I have request entity in the ACT section, I can use rest template to send a request.
So I will use my test rest template.
And this time I'm going to use a slightly different method that is called exchange.
And if you have experience working with a risk template declined, then you will recognize this method
right away.
So we can use this method to send the HTTP, get request and then get back a list of objects as the
first parameter.
I will provide URL path which is going to be users.
Then I will provide a DB method which is going to be get.
Then we'll go my request entity that I have just prepared here.
Let's put things on their own lines.
And finally, to specify that, I want to get back a list of objects of specific data type.
I will use the following code snippet.
Parameterized type preference is going to be at least of user arrest data type.
Let's import list and put semicolon at the end.
Mind this and this will return us a response entity that will contain a list of user rest objects.
And I will call it response.
So now that we have a response entity object, we can use it to access response status code, response
headers and response body.
And at this time we are only interested in HTTP status code.
The status code of this HTTP response should be 403 so let's add an assertion for it in the assert section
I will use assert equals.
It will need to come from assertions the expected value is four or three.
I can type it like this or I can use HTTP status and that is going to be forbidden.
And the actual status code I will read from this response entity object to get status code like this.
And then if these two are not equal, I will display an error message.
For example, a HTTP status code for a three should have been returned.
Like this.
All right.
So I think now we are ready to run this test method and see how it works.
Let's run it.
And it passes, which means that the status code of which response does equal to four three.
The server does understand our request, but it refuses to authorize it.
And for server to authorize this request we will need to provide a valid JWT access token.
So let's continue and in the following lessons we will write a test method to perform user login and
once the user successfully logs in HTTP response will contain a valid JWT access token and we can then
write another test method to validate that.
We can use this token to communicate with protected API endpoints.
All right.
So let's continue to the next lecture.